# IS135 Term Project, Fall 2015

## The Assignment in a Nutshell
On April 6, 2016 the [*Fairfield StagUp* program](http://fairfieldstagup.org) (formerly the *Fairfield University Business Plan Competition*) will be staging its first Showcase event in the Oak Room, BCC. In many respects it is similar to the Business Plan Competition Finale event that it replaces, with student teams vying for startup funding from an panel of alumni investors. This time, however, there is no limit on how much the investor panel can invest and the audience will be privy to the negotiations in real time.

The Showcase is intended to be a focal point for promoting Fairfield University's entrepreneurship programs. There is already a lot of alumni interest in the event, especially among angel investors and consultants who would like to directly engage with our students. In anticipation of new followers being attracted to the "bigger ... better" format, the venue has been moved from the DSB Dining Room (which seats ~180) to the Oak Room (~325 seats). The likely venue for the Showcase in 2017 is the Quick Center, which seats over 700 people.

Given the nature of the event and the audience it is expected to attract, Fairfield University has decided to promote Showcase with its own website. The site would replace the current FairfieldStagUp.org site on March 6 (the day after the Qualifiers), and remain live until after the summer Board of Trustees meeting. The site would then revert back to the current FairfieldStagUp.org for the start of the 2016-2017 school year.

**Working in teams of 2-3 students, you will collaborate to explore and prototype concepts for the new website. The new design should be fully responsive and be in keeping with Fairfield University’s recent rebranding efforts (e.g., the new [Quick Center](http://quickcenter.fairfield.edu) website). However, since Fairfield StagUp operates as an independently-sponsored extracurricular activity, the branding must not infringe on Fairfield University trademarks. We cannot use the Fairfield U shield, antlers, or wordmark in the masthead, though we can use them in the footer. The design will be completed in phases, with defined milestones leading up to project completion at the end of the semester.**

## Milestone #1: Setup and Persona Analysis
### Action Items (Due October 7)

1. Form your team. You will be assigned a team name in class.
2. Claim a repository in the class's GitHub organization:
  * Each team will have its own shared repository. You will claim the repository in class. The repository will be named `[team name]-term-project`, where `[team-name]` is a greek letter assigned to your team. Each team member will have write permissions for the repository.
  * Once claimed, click on your repository from within the list. You will be asked to initialize a `README` file, a `LICENSE`, and a `.gitignore`. We'll all do that in Atom and GitHub Desktop.

3. Set up the repository:
  * **One team member** should click the `Set Up in Desktop` button to clone the repository. Open the repository folder in Atom and add the following:

    * A file named `Readme.md` which display the team name, the members, and a list of links to other files. The list of links should be empty for now.
        >You will need to use [GitHub Flavored Markdown (GFM)](https://help.github.com/articles/github-flavored-markdown/) to format the file for display in your browser. Take some time to learn it.  You'll look like an idiot if you don't. The GFM syntax is really trivial to learn.

    * A folder named `src` that will contain the HTML and CSS for your new site. Inside that folder, create a blank `index.html` file.
      > Why `src`? It's a tradition that goes back many, many years. It's what web developers expect.  

      > Why a blank `index.html` file? Can't we add it later? Git commits changes to files, not folders. So, you need a file inside a folder in order to add the folder to the GitHub repo.

    * A folder named `docs` that will contain documentation about your website. Inside that folder, create a blank file called `Personas.md`.
      > Documentation in this case is more than just a user manual. We're using it to share your design work with fellow designers.

      > We'll start work on the `Personas.md` in a little bit.

    * Commit the changes with the summary comment 'Initializing repository' and then push to GitHub.

  * Once the first member has pushed to GitHub, the others should clone the repository to their desktops.

  * One team will do the steps above live as a demonstration to the rest of the class.
    >This way we can do it all together.  

4. Commit the 3-step editing process below to memory:   
  1. In GitHub Desktop hit the `Sync` button to get the latest version of the file.
  2. Edit files in Atom.
  3. Use GitHub Desktop to `Commit` and `Sync` your work.

  > It is probably best for now if **each file is edited by only *one* person at a time.** If you edit a file, then your teammates will need to `Sync` their copies in GitHub Desktop to download your changes. For obvious reasons, do the commit and sync steps often so that you avoid 'collisions' where two people try to push conflicting edits. Push early and often. Smaller changes are better than larger ones.

5. Draft a [Persona Analysis](http://www.usability.gov/how-to-and-tools/methods/personas.html) document that describes each segment of the audience for the Showcase event. Each Persona profile should (eventually) be one page and include all essential data needed to answer why and how the person would choose to attend the event. Start small, with just the basic information about your target audience. You can embellish with more details later on on the project.
  * Write your analysis using Markdown in the `Personas.md` file inside the `docs` folder.
  >If you need to have images, then create an `images` subfolder and link to them there. Look in the [tutorial folders](../Tutorials) of this repository for examples of how to do that.  
  >**Tip: You may want to do the first draft in a shared Google Doc, paste the text into your Personas.md file, and then apply Markdown to make it look decent.**

  * Don't forget to commit and push your work. Do not wait for later. Remind your teammates to sync their copies before they edit anything.

6. Review your work with the instructor.

## Milestone #2: Wireframes and Boilerplate
### Action Items (Due October 14)

1. Create a shared Google Drive folder for your team. Use [Draw.io](http://www.draw.io) or [Lucidchart](http://lucidchart.com) to draw up wireframes for your main pages. While you may embellish your wireframe with decoration, be sure that your decorations can actually work well in Bootstrap. Draw your wireframes for both mobile and desktop widths. You’ll find that it’s better to keep the layout fairly lean, with lots of whitespace so that we can make it responsive at all widths. In other words, each thing you cram into the page needs to be responsive, so why load up with more than you actually need?

2. Export your wireframes as PNG files to your Git repository. They should be in a subfolder of the `docs` folder named `wireframes`.
3. You may be asked to show off your wireframes to the class.
4. Initialize your `index.html` file with Bootstrap's boilerplate. Try out some HTML and CSS to make 100% sure that you’ve got the framework linked in properly. You can experiment with other Bootstrap templates if you like. It’s up to you. Add a `link` to your custom `style.css` file at the bootm of the `head` so that it always loads after Bootstrap's templates.
5. Review your work with the instructor.

## Milestone #3: Draft HTML & CSS  
### Action Items (Due November 4)

1. Prepare a [Structured Walkthrough](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1NOlW-2fHIueO4xw5aelD_mKvEtryQpEjLahcMh6s86Y) presentation for your site. You will deliver the presentation in class on November 4. When possible, show actual web pages instead of mockups. The purpose is to get feedback on your work *before* the big push to final submission.
> Raising issues is the whole point of a walkthrough, and you are not helping yourself or anybody else by not trying to discuss them.

2. Use [Markdown Remark](https://github.com/gnab/remark) for your slides. Commit the slides to a folder named `prelimary-review` inside your `docs` folder.
> *You will be shown how to do this in class.*

## Milestone #4: Final Submission and Review
### Action Items (Due December 10)
1. Prepare a presentation for your site design. Your presentation should cover at least the following:
  * Your design concept (what you were trying to do)
  > Try to cover this in a slide or two. This is best done by stating goals for your design. The quality of your work would then be assessed in part based on your achievement of your goals.

  * A walkthrough of your site design, section by section
  > Use your time well. Since there is no chance to revise your work, you do not have to open up for questions.

  * Comments on how the site "works"for each of the personas you have identified as important
  > You can do this one persona at a time or all at once. It might not be a bad idea to step through an essential user story or two showing us how the story would play out with your site.

2. Presentations start at 11:30am. Each team will get 10 minutes to present their work. There will be a peer review survey for everyone to fill out while you are presenting.
  > The review rubric will be given to you on the last day of class. Use it to help you prepare for your presentation.

3. By midnight of December 9, tag your work as "final" in your GitHub repo.
  >You will be shown in class how to tag releases in Git.
